the project gutenberg ebook of the adventures of sherlock holmes
by sir arthur conan doyle
(#15 in our series by sir arthur conan doyle)

copyright laws are changing all over the world. be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing
this or any other project gutenberg ebook.

this header should be the first thing seen when viewing this project
gutenberg file.  please do not remove it.  do not change or edit the
header without written permission.

please read the "legal small print," and other information about the
ebook and project gutenberg at the bottom of this file.  included is
important information about your specific rights and restrictions in
how the file may be used.  you can also find out about how to make a
donation to project gutenberg, and how to get involved.


welcome to the world of free plain vanilla electronic tets

ebooks readable by both humans and by computers, since 11

these ebooks were prepared by thousands of volunteers


title the adventures of sherlock holmes

author sir arthur conan doyle

release date march, 1  ebook #11
most recently updated november , 

edition 1

language english

character set encoding ascii

 start of the project gutenberg ebook, the adventures of sherlock holmes 




(additional editing by jose menende)



the adventures of
sherlock holmes

by

sir arthur conan doyle

contents

i.a scandal in bohemia
ii.the redheaded league
iii.a case of identity
iv.the boscombe valley mystery
v.the five orange pips
vi.the man with the twisted lip
vii.the adventure of the blue carbuncle
viii.the adventure of the speckled band
i.the adventure of the engineers thumb
.the adventure of the noble bachelor
i.the adventure of the beryl coronet
ii.the adventure of the copper beeches


adventure  i.  a scandal in bohemia

i.


to sherlock holmes she is always the woman. i have seldom heard him mention her under any other name. in his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her se. it was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for irene adler. all emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. he was, i take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position. he never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer. they were admirable things for the observerecellent for drawing the veil from mens motives and actions. but for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own highpower lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. and yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late irene adler, of dubious and uestionable memory.

i had seen little of holmes lately. my marriage had drifted us away from each other. my own complete happiness, and the homecentred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in baker street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. he was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and etraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police. from time to time i heard some vague account of his doings of his summons to odessa in the case of the trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the atkinson brothers at trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of holland. beyond these signs of his activity, however, which i merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, i knew little of my former friend and companion.

one nightit was on the twentieth of march, 1i was returning from a journey to a patient (for i had now returned to civil practice), when my way led me through baker street. as i passed the wellremembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the study in scarlet, i was seied with a keen desire to see holmes again, and to know how he was employing his etraordinary powers. his rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as i looked up, i saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind. he was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. to me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story. he was at work again. he had risen out of his drugcreated dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. i rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.

his manner was not effusive. it seldom was but he was glad, i think, to see me. with hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.

"wedlock suits you," he remarked. "i think, watson, that you have put on seven and a half pounds since i saw you."

"seven" i answered.

"indeed, i should have thought a little more. just a trifle more, i fancy, watson. and in practice again, i observe. you did not tell me that you intended to go into harness."

"then, how do you know"

"i see it, i deduce it. how do i know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl"

"my dear holmes," said i, "this is too much. you would certainly have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago. it is true that i had a country walk on thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as i have changed my clothes i cant imagine how you deduce it. as to mary jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there, again, i fail to see how you work it out."

he chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.

"it is simplicity itself," said he "my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is scored by si almost parallel cuts. obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it. hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a particularly malignant bootslitting specimen of the london slavey. as to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his tophat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope, i must be dull, indeed, if i do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession."

i could not help laughing at the ease with which he eplained his process of deduction. "when i hear you give your reasons," i remarked, "the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that i could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your reasoning i am baffled until you eplain your process. and yet i believe that my eyes are as good as yours."

"uite so," he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself down into an armchair. "you see, but you do not observe. the distinction is clear. for eample, you have freuently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room."

"freuently."

"how often"

"well, some hundreds of times."

"then how many are there"

"how many i dont know."

"uite so you have not observed. and yet you have seen. that is just my point. now, i know that there are seventeen steps, because i have both seen and observed. by the way, since you are interested in these little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling eperiences, you may be interested in this." he threw over a sheet of thick, pinktinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table. "it came by the last post," said he. "read it aloud."

the note was undated, and without either signature or address.

"there will call upon you tonight, at a uarter to eight oclock," it said, "a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment. your recent services to one of the royal houses of europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be eaggerated. this account of you we have from all uarters received. be in your chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask."

"this is indeed a mystery," i remarked. "what do you imagine that it means"

"i have no data yet. it is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data. insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts. but the note itself. what do you deduce from it"

i carefully eamined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.

"the man who wrote it was presumably well to do," i remarked, endeavouring to imitate my companions processes. "such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet. it is peculiarly strong and stiff."

"peculiarthat is the very word," said holmes. "it is not an english paper at all. hold it up to the light."

i did so, and saw a large "e" with a small "g," a "p," and a large "g" with a small "t" woven into the teture of the paper.

"what do you make of that" asked holmes.

"the name of the maker, no doubt or his monogram, rather."

"not at all. the g with the small t stands for gesellschaft, which is the german for company. it is a customary contraction like our co. p, of course, stands for papier. now for the eg. let us glance at our continental gaetteer." he took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves. "eglow, eglonithere we are, egria. it is in a germanspeaking countryin bohemia, not far from carlsbad. remarkable as being the scene of the death of wallenstein, and for its numerous glassfactories and papermills. ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of that" his eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.

"the paper was made in bohemia," i said.

"precisely. and the man who wrote the note is a german. do you note the peculiar construction of the sentencethis account of you we have from all uarters received. a frenchman or russian could not have written that. it is the german who is so uncourteous to his verbs. it only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this german who writes upon bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face. and here he comes, if i am not mistaken, to resolve all our doubts."

as he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell. holmes whistled.

"a pair, by the sound," said he. "yes," he continued, glancing out of the window. "a nice little brougham and a pair of beauties. a hundred and fifty guineas apiece. theres money in this case, watson, if there is nothing else."

"i think that i had better go, holmes."

"not a bit, doctor. stay where you are. i am lost without my boswell. and this promises to be interesting. it would be a pity to miss it."

"but your client"

"never mind him. i may want your help, and so may he. here he comes. sit down in that armchair, doctor, and give us your best attention."

a slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage, paused immediately outside the door. then there was a loud and authoritative tap.

"come in" said holmes.

a man entered who could hardly have been less than si feet si inches in height, with the chest and limbs of a hercules. his dress was rich with a richness which would, in england, be looked upon as akin to bad taste. heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his doublebreasted coat, while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flamecoloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl. boots which etended halfway up his calves, and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance. he carried a broadbrimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper part of his face, etending down past the cheekbones, a black viard mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand was still raised to it as he entered. from the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip, and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.

"you had my note" he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked german accent. "i told you that i would call." he looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.

"pray take a seat," said holmes. "this is my friend and colleague, dr. watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases. whom have i the honour to address"

"you may address me as the count von kramm, a bohemian nobleman. i understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom i may trust with a matter of the most etreme importance. if not, i should much prefer to communicate with you alone."

i rose to go, but holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair. "it is both, or none," said he. "you may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me."

the count shrugged his broad shoulders. "then i must begin," said he, "by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance. at present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon european history."

"i promise," said holmes.

"and i."